i'm chief product officer at samsara i
have uh run our product organization
uh since uh founding
and
actually worked with our co-founders at
our previous company called meraki as
well so our team has been working
together building companies for uh for
over a dozen years now uh excited to
share uh some of the stories and lessons
learned along the way
we'll start with a brief company
overview for those of you who are less
familiar with samsara and what we do and
then actually rewind the clock uh talk a
bit about our previous company meraki uh
how our experience growing in building
meraki and then seeing it continue uh to
to grow as part of cisco systems has
influenced how we shaped samsara
then we'll dive into the samsara story
and share some of the lessons that we've
learned growing the business to to where
we are today
a couple of key takeaways that i'm going
to touch on throughout the course of the
morning
first is how customer feedback loops
guided us through unfamiliar markets
when we open up our eyes and look at
opportunities where maybe we aren't the
target customer where it's a use case
that we're not familiar with we open
ourselves to some massive massive
opportunities to have a lot of impact
and build great businesses but it really
requires an active feedback loop with
customers to learn about what we need to
build how we need to sell the product
and how to make it really resonate the
market and that's something that we've
really refined over the years both at
meraki and samsara
second how a little bit of hardware can
unlock massive software opportunities
we are you know first and foremost a
software company that is primarily what
we sell that is what our users interact
with day in the day out but by
integrating hardware with our solution
we make it possible to solve different
types of problems than we could with
software alone
third how going multi-product early
through adjacencies can make a really
big impact on the trajectory and and
growth of the business
and then fourth
this is something that
i find often is hard to see while you're
thick in the middle of execution but
industry transformation you know really
does take time can take decades so it's
really important to think long term
so without further ado quick samsara
introduction
samsara connects the world of physical
operations to the cloud
samsara takes data from sensors cameras
devices that are used in physical
operations like logistics construction
energy manufacturing
brings that data into our cloud where we
can analyze it and then provide
applications on top that our customers
use to be safer
and avoid accidents to improve their
efficiency and to be more sustainable
the company was founded back in 2015
by sanjit the swastika john pickett who
also founded meraki
and we took the company public just last
december
we just reported our first first quarter
as a public company a couple of weeks
ago
closed the quarter at a little over 550
million dollars in arr which was over 60
percent growth from a year before
and our revenue comes from five key
applications on our platform that we're
delivering to uh over 14 000 customers
so
most of you i imagine are not running uh
logistics operations or construction
companies so
what does it mean how do customers use
our solution
let's take a look at a quick example
food express
food express is
a
food distribution company that supplies
ingredients for food production
food express uses samsara to manage
their operations from the cloud
they have our ai dash cameras in their
facilities distribution centers so they
can see what's going on make sure their
workers are safe
they use our solution to track the
location of their their trucks in real
time so they can provide etas
optimize routes
they use samsara to track all of their
equipment so they know where their
trailers their assets are they know if
things are properly refrigerated and
cooled and properly stored
and they use our safety solution
to use video in the cab think connected
ai dash cameras to help coach their
drivers make sure they're safe out on
the road
and reward their safest drivers
and finally they use our mobile apps to
take all of the paper and manual
processes that their workers used to do
out in the field and move them into
digital workflows
so the end result is that their team is
able to
have visibility across their operations
from a cloud-based dashboard they're
able to find insights that they're able
to use to
improve their safety their efficiency
and their sustainability
so
how did we
arrive at this solution that we're
offering today
before we answer that question i
actually want to rewind the clock to
before some sorrow was founded
into uh meraki a previous company some
of the learnings from the building
meraki that have influenced what we're
doing here at samsara
now
i'm actually going to rewind the clock
way way back to the beginning of the
days of wi-fi
meraki started off as a wi-fi company
where we build wireless networking
systems for
businesses schools retail stores what
have you
and what was really kind of novel about
the system was that
all of the network was connected to the
cloud so an it department could manage
that all of their entire network all of
their sites over the web
and as wi-fi was really becoming uh
mainstream this really helped customers
adopt technology it helped meraki grow
as a company
but the history actually starts about 30
years before today about uh 15 years
before meraki was started when wireless
technology wi-fi technology first
emerged
it was actually not called wi-fi back
then it was called waveland and in a bit
of a history lesson it was uh created by
a company called ncr ncr stands for
national cash register
this is a company that was founded back
in the in the mid to late 1800s they
built as the name implies cash registers
and
in the 90s and late 80s they were
starting to put more and more cash
registers that were connected into pcs
connected with networks
and they found that getting these cash
registers at checkout counters or across
department stores and actually running
the ethernet cables to connect them to
the network was was expensive and it was
slowing deployment
so
they started building
early implementations of wi-fi
technology into their cache registers
this was a way to connect them to the
local network
they were deployed you know order of
magnitude 10 000 units so
.01 million devices back in in
early 90s
now fast forward 10 years
and
the internet had emerged and was
becoming mainstream and laptops were
becoming common and people realized they
could use wi-fi as a way to surf the web
when you were away from your desk
and
we can see that in the the 10 years that
passed since these connected cash
registers the number of wi-fi devices
actually grew
by
100x from 0.01 million devices to about
a million devices
and this was about when
i and
meraki's founders were getting into
networking
i was
just about joining apple as an engineer
on the networking team working on
discovery protocols
sanjit and john were getting started at
mit where they were
doing research on
wireless routing uh
wireless wireless routing protocols
building the foundation for what
eventually became iraqi
now fast forward another 10 years
and we see that the number of devices
100 x's again
so now we have
uh laptops we have ipads we have
smartphones the internet has become
mainstream and and really the core for
how businesses were operating and wi-fi
was starting to become the primary way
that many people access the internet and
it was this period that meraki started
going through really high growth
as more and more businesses said hey we
need to make wi-fi part of our networks
now
we found a uh a
a screenshot here from a talk we were
giving in meraki back in in 2011 so
right around this time and you can see
we had 18 000 customer networks deployed
on our our solution at the time
and i remember being in the thick of it
you know the company was doing great we
had really high growth but i was kind of
sweating bullets saying are we going to
run out of market are we going to run
out of leads i don't know how we're
going to get enough leads for the next
year
it was really a question of hey is this
a big enough opportunity and you know
for me one of the takeaways that really
helped influence how we thought about
samsara was recognizing that this
compound exponential growth is really
hard to notice when you're actually in
it executing day to day but when you
zoom out the results are just dramatic
so
2011 we're worried about running out of
leads but we keep growing and keep
executing
now
uh about five six years later this is
after uh we left the company but it was
continuing to operate as part of cisco
systems
they had actually grown to a million
networks
and then in 20 months doubled again to 2
million
and now let's bring us up to today there
are 10 billion wi-fi clients out there
in the world there are more wi-fi
devices than there are people and
everything has wi-fi even garage door
openers and this was something that was
very hard for us to appreciate while
operating day in day out but being able
to look in hindsight and see what this
type of industry transformation looks
like and how technology companies can
align with it was really
really powerful
so
transitioning from
rocky to to samsara
meraki was acquired by cisco for 1.2
billion dollars in late 2012
and
we spent a few years getting meraki
established within cisco's continuing to
grow do very well
we transitioned the business to the next
generation of leaders and founded
samsara and it's actually been really
fascinating to watch the experiment play
out see the the seed that was planted
continue to grow uh the things that
worked well continuing to pay off over
the long term as they grew to two
million active networks and uh over the
last couple of years they reported that
they've crossed over two billion in
sales so
really awesome to see the team
continuing to execute also really cool
to see
some of the
early decisions that we made play out
and succeed over the long term decisions
that we were able to then be very
deliberate about making when we were
building samsara
and
the first is around a culture of
customer feedback you know this is
something that we did
i'd say intuitively at meraki to figure
out what the product needed to do
as we saw at work we figured out hey how
do we make it really systematic and a
core part of the dna at samsara
second is
the
importance of company culture if we
think about all the ups and downs and
transitions that we had to go through at
meraki the different products that we
had to build
the different
phases of scale of the company the
culture was really what allowed the team
to be resilient and continue to
up their game as they continue to scale
and that importance of culture was
really hit home
third growth mindset
it's helpful to see hey these things
actually take multiple decades to to
scale and the problems that you're
solving in one day are entirely
different from the problems might be
solving
months quarters years down the road so
instilling growth mindset into the
culture keeping the team resilient and
willing to try new things sometimes fail
but constantly be learning is really
critical given that the problems that
we're solving just continue to evolve
and change
so i'm gonna get into some specific
examples of how
these traits really played out at
samsara um but first question how did we
decide to start this business
well at meraki we had this really
awesome experience of working with a
wide variety of uh of businesses who
were looking to deploy networks
we worked with
schools and offices and retail
environments but also
uh factories food and beverage
distribution centers warehouses
and we found that when we got out of
uh
the world of i.t and into the world of
physical operations
the tools and the ability to use data
were really limited
and many of these businesses if we think
about you know construction firms or
energy utilities or
local government operations
they were kind of doing things largely
the same way that they might have been
in the 90s we saw a lot of
green screens and older systems we'd see
big paper maps on the wall with post-its
on them
and a lot of manual processes a lot of
paper
i found that they really just didn't
have access to the kind of modern data
and software that we all take for
granted
and in a way this makes sense right
their operations rely on physical assets
uh things that are out in rugged
environments moving around and the
technology simply wasn't available to
really capture and act on data from them
you know even a generation
ago and you know being technologists we
were really looking at some of the
trends the things that were becoming
possible and emerging
and saw an opportunity to connect the
dots here
first a
better camera and sensor technology the
cameras and sensors becoming really
inexpensive really high quality really
low power so you can start to just put
them on everything and get data from
the broad swath of operations
second it is becoming much more
practical
to
process store and aggregate all the data
these sensors can generate in the cloud
third you have high bandwidth cellular
networks that are becoming ubiquitous so
pretty much anywhere these operators are
are working you can take data from these
sensors and actually bring them over the
internet into the cloud where you can
analyze them
and fourth just seeing more and more
assets and devices connect to the
internet and when you have this type of
trend it makes the technology more
powerful more affordable more accessible
and that's something that clearly wasn't
going to stop
so
we looked at these foundational
technologies so there's an opportunity
to really do something different serve
the world of operations we knew that the
world of operations was really big you
know it's over a third of the global gdp
so that's when we decided to uh to jump
in and start some sorrow
we founded the company in 2015 and there
were a couple of things that we
really had conviction over and many
things we had no idea about had to
figure out from scratch
so
first we knew that we wanted to build
systems that were really easy for
customers to use
we had seen other companies try to build
iot data systems where you have one
company building sensors another
providing connectivity another providing
the infrastructure and storage and
someone else building the applications
on top and then you pay an integrator
millions of dollars to glue it all
together
and you know that might work in a big
power plant or very high-end deployment
but was really out of the reach of
mainstream operators that we wanted to
serve so we said we need something that
works out of the box and that led us to
integrate hardware and software together
we found that if we were able to
make the data available in the cloud in
a really seamless way
it made it so much easier for the
customers to deploy a solution and start
using it we really wanted them to be
able to get up and running in an
afternoon and so that meant really
building the whole stack
that was on the product side
on the company side we were very
deliberate about
setting the culture from day one around
customer feedback around
adopting a growth mindset and around
being long-term oriented i think these
are things that we really kind of did
intuitively at meraki and we felt our
way through it having seen it work once
we knew that these were traits that
really could apply to any business we
were very deliberate about setting them
early on and i think that really helped
with the pace of growth and how quickly
we're able to execute
so
that's where we knew there was a lot we
didn't know and had to figure out
starting with what were the most
important customer problems for us to
solve for our customers you know we were
not industrial operators we were
technologists we had to engage with the
market to figure out where we can make
the biggest impact
so
we started working with uh some of our
you know friends and family contacts
from meraki early customers from
different industries
and really had a prototype that we were
able to get in real users hands in about
100 days
and one of our first ideas was
a temperature and refrigeration monger
we visited some uh uh some companies the
biotech food and beverage and saw that
you know they had paper records to
record temperature
you can see here a screenshot of a
windows system that they were using to
pull pull temperature data from the
refrigerators and said hey we could make
something that's modern that's elegant
we can have
wireless temperature sensors that
pull their data and you can you know see
it all on a smartphone
and you know the customers were really
gracious with their time they let us
deploy our uh our prototypes and their
facilities we were able to fix a lot of
bugs we're able to make it work reliably
but you know after a while they said
hey guys you know these
refrigerators don't really fail right
uh and you know we had no idea it turned
out that
we weren't really resonating with a
problem
that that could drive impact um
but this is where the the culture of
customer feedback really came into play
uh we engage with a lot of different
customers and really just listen what
problems do you have
and one of the first breakthroughs
really came from a customer we were
testing with called cowgirl creamery uh
those of you in the west coast uh might
might know them
they're a boutique cheese producer in
northern california and their cheese is
actually delicious it is available in a
bunch of stores here in california it's
a small business a few sites you know
craft production and i think we cold
called into them actually and they said
oh this sounds interesting we'll help
you out and sure enough we were putting
our temperature sensors in their
refrigerators and they told us you know
where we really have spoilage we really
have issues it's not in our temperature
in our refrigerators in our facilities
it's in the trucks it's really easy for
a driver to not set the refrigeration
unit in the back of the truck properly
or leave a door open on a hot day
and that can cause food to spoil it can
reduce shelf life it can impact quality
can you help with that
and so that really was what led us uh to
to trucks and fleets so
we quickly uh adapted the the technology
we made it such that we could monitor
the the temperature in the back of the
truck but also see the truck's location
right have a dot in the map on a map
that uh was real time that updated just
like you could uh track say a lift or an
uber or a doordash on your phone and
said let's give you know temperature and
location visibility into vehicles and
and see how that goes
and that really started to resonate with
customers and they started saying
yes this is valuable we'll pay for it
it's it's incredibly helpful at solving
a real problem
oh and by the way there are more
problems like this that samsara's
technology could help us with so that
was really the the aha moment that
started this rapid feedback loop
now
we decided early on that we wanted to
build products that could apply to
broad swaths of the operations economy
not just a single vertical or a single
industry
and so we wanted to make sure we didn't
you know just focus on food and beverage
just focus on refrigeration
and so we started engaging with all
different types of operators
and we quickly learned that
they almost all of them had fleets and
these fleets were everywhere from
logistics companies to energy companies
to
local governments utilities
what have you
the world of operations it turns out use
fleets to move people to move equipment
and it was a really critical part of how
they operated
and we were able to bring our solution
to this broad variety of work verticals
run this feedback loop and use it to
really flesh out our initial product and
then grow the portfolio
this really comes down to the customer
feedback loop that i think we really
established at meraki and then
accelerated here at samsara
now listening to customers is something
that i think every every startup does
and most startups do pretty well
there are a couple of specific
techniques that really work well for us
first is we actually put a button in
every page of our dashboard it's called
the feedback button it's on the bottom
left side and any user of the system can
hit that button
and give us a suggestion
that basically captures the context of
what they're doing in the app as well as
their notes and it goes to our entire
product and engineering team in a slack
channel so at any point you can log into
that slack channel and basically see a
fire hose of what users are asking for
and sure sometimes they're talking about
a bug or something that doesn't work
quite right but a lot of the times
they're asking about the new
functionality or even new products that
they would find useful on on the
platform and this really allowed us to
get a really fast feedback loop of what
to do next and how we could expand into
new areas
second was how we engaged with our sales
and marketing teams to really hone this
feedback loop and sort the list of
things we could do
our sales and sales engineering teams
had mechanisms to very quickly and
easily log feature requests in
salesforce such that you know when
customers start asking about something
we can really clearly see signal about
how broadly it applies is it just a
specific
customer or a specific vertical or is it
a broad use case
and by focusing early on on having a
very broad top of funnel and integrating
that not only into our sales
funnel but also into our product roadmap
we were able to get a really good signal
on what we could do next
third was you know simply getting
getting our hands dirty especially in
this business
couldn't all be done through slack
channels and salesforce reports
we spent time getting out in the field
i remember one of my first customer
visits on a sunday i tried playing
tennis for the first time in 20 years
and you know folded my ankle in half
next monday i was on a plane hobbling
through a uh
uh refrigerated
uh warehouse and distribution center
that was about you know 35 degrees
forklifts zipping around everywhere
wearing a hard hat and steel toe boots
worried i was going to get run over
experiences like that were so valuable
they've gotten a lot safer now
but our customers were so generous with
their time and our uh willingness to
actually get in the car get on a plane
engage and learn about their
environments was so so valuable as we
were building products for these
environments where we weren't already
familiar with the operations
we did a lot of
feedback sessions and customer summits
where we bring customers out
to our offices now we do a lot of them
virtually and really just open up the
kimono and get their direct feedback on
our roadmap these types of mechanisms
along with the really large-scale
mechanisms like our feedback buttons and
salesforce reporting really gave us a
great signal on what to do
so this really translated into our
ability to build multiple products on
the platform uh in relatively short
order
we now have uh five core applications on
the product
on the platform today you know we
started with as i mentioned you know gps
tracking and temperature monitoring but
quickly customers started asking us
about
safety they had accidents they had
safety incidents they wanted to know
what happened they asked us if if there
was a way we could get some some video
or camera data into the system so we
built a connected dash cam a video
safety product
and quickly the customer started seeing
okay there's there's accident there's a
harsh event i can see when my driver was
not at fault and exonerate them with
evidence or i could see maybe when they
were uh inattentive how do i coach them
and they were finding that distraction
and smartphones were actually driving a
big fraction of their safety incidents
and we realized hey ai and machine
learning is getting to the point where
we can start actually detecting this
on the edge automatically using computer
vision and just give the driver a little
alert in the cab help keep them safe
right so
that type of feedback loop really was
what led the product proliferation we
went from
gps tracking to video safety equipment
tracking site visibility
and mobile apps to digitize all the
paperwork and workflows that we found
and putting this all together i think it
just created a really awesome impact for
customers a couple examples of brad
crane you can see a photo of their
operations on the left these big giant
crane and construction activities
reduced accidents by 43
unity fiber communications company
almost doubled their dispatch
productivity
ufp industry is
a transportation logistics and lumber
company they are uh saving six hundred
thousand dollars a year just by
digitizing their paper processes and
streamlining their administration
and uh something that's near and dear to
my heart
jordan transfer uh midsize logistics
company in the midwest
they are taking 1400 tons of co2 out of
the air every year and saving 500
thousand dollars prior a year in the
process by optimizing their fuel
consumption so it's been really
gratifying to see the customer feedback
translate into uh these types of of
results for customers
and uh we're really excited about what
comes next so
through our customer feedback we've
really been able to expand from vehicle
fleets and fleet operations
into equipment and asset management into
sites and each of these areas allows us
to continue running these feedback loops
expanding these product portfolios into
into adjacent seats and we have a a lot
of new areas uh that we're excited to
get into over over the next decade this
world is just just massive and there's
so many areas where
technology is is still you know maybe
antiquated or not what we would expect
in in 2022 and there's opportunity to do
a lot more
um second we're really just starting to
tap the surface of what we can do with
with data
you know early on
we had to build products that could work
really in you know units of one if we
could deploy one unit to one customer
could it be useful
now with some scale we have this massive
amount of data coming into our platform
4.68 trillion data points that we
ingested last year
85 billion minutes of video footage
running ai on that to detect almost two
and a half
billion ai
detections we're processing billions of
api calls as customers connect samsara
with other systems
this is opening up really new doors in
terms of what can be done for operations
you know some of the early areas that
we've seen really great traction
one is uh helping customers use data to
feed it to their insurance companies
such that they can get insurance rate
reductions with safe operations
looking at utilization and helping
customers move
to predictive maintenance to avoid
unplanned downtime to do benchmarking so
an operator can say
hey how do i compare to operators like
me where am i doing well when it comes
to safety or efficiency where can i do
better and helping them automate their
workflows so it's an area where we're
just scratching the surface that i think
is going to be a big part of the next
chapter for
our business as well as the operations
industry in general
and you know finally we just see a huge
huge opportunity in physical operations
this is an area that was was new to us
as we were building the company and
getting into it the deeper we've got the
more and more excited we've got
about opportunity to reduce accidents
and even deaths right to improve
efficiency give people back millions of
hours a day
and
to improve sustainability really on a
global scale we think about the fraction
of fossil fuels and emissions
that are consumed and produced through
operations there's so much opportunity
to to make a dent
so
i want to take plenty of time for
questions but again to recap some of the
the main takeaways that that i've had
reflecting on on both meraki and samsara
one is that
these customer feedback groups being
very systematic and disciplined about
them can make it possible to execute
really quickly in markets that might be
unfamiliar in use cases that are
unfamiliar
two we all love software samsara is a
software company at heart but a little
bit of hardware can unlock massive
opportunities and what can be done with
software
three going multi-product early through
adjacencies pays dividends
we now have two products that are over
200 million dollars in arr each both
growing well this was made possible by
going multi-product early and being able
to run feedback loops across all of our
product areas
and number four
industry transformation does take
decades and we didn't appreciate this
at meraki i think we went into samsara
eyes wide open that really changing the
way that operations works is something
that will take
multiple decades and it's important to
move fast deliver results early but make
sure that we're building for the long
term
so with that i want to make a shameless
plug if anything we talked about sounds
interesting or you have uh friends
people you've worked with that you think
might be excited about samsara we are
hiring we have uh i believe over 400
open positions today the business is
growing and we've got a lot to do so uh
check us out at samsara.com careers and
uh with that let's go ahead and open it
to uh to q a
um i see a number of questions in the in
the chat window if you can please go
ahead and pop those into the q a we'll
be answering out of there
and uh start going through the uh
through the list
all right uh great great question so
samsara's products are in a fairly
mature space overall what are the
initial 10x features
that made samsara accelerate so far
ahead
so
we
would really seek out
markets where there was a an established
industry where we didn't have to
convince customers for the the first
time of the value of data or or software
or a particular solution but then tried
to find areas where we saw an
opportunity to deliver just a 10x better
solution and i think uh really the first
example of that is simply in how we
helped uh customers track their fleets
you know first it was in real time so
customers are used to having a system
that maybe updated a dot on the map
every 10 minutes
we said hey why should this be any
different than you know tracking a lift
or a doordash we should be able to see a
dot on the map move in real time so
that's how we built the system
and that kind of blew customers uh uh
mines right and then adding to that the
ability to
have a temperature sensor that was about
the size of a matchbook it was totally
wireless you could stick it in the back
of the truck
see temperature get an alert on your
phone if maybe the
the the cargo is about to spoil
those two things really open customers
eyes now there were so many features we
didn't have in the early days so many
things we didn't do but that got
customers excited to to partner with us
to give us feedback and help us develop
the solution and round it out
i'd say that the next big leap came when
we added our video safety product our
dash cams and this is where in customers
minds it became clear that this was not
a single product solution it was
actually a multi-product platform and as
customers were thinking about okay how
do we get more and more data about our
operations into software they're seeing
well i can't have a different vendor for
each area i need a solution they need a
system and
seeing that samsara can solve multiple
problems for them at once really
solidified that and helped accelerate
and differentiate from the competition
all right uh great question were there
also any features that you thought were
10x features that in the end customers
didn't care that much about
um
yes i can i can think of i can think of
several um you know i think the
the
there were two areas where we made made
mistakes honestly in prioritizing their
roadmap um one is when we we weren't
disciplined about making sure we were
looking for signal across a broad
pipeline we could get into uh to deal
chasing mode build something that we
thought was really cool and actually a
customer thought was really cool but
then the broad market didn't find it
that useful i can think of a
custom a product that we made for
local service industries that turned out
was really really niche and in the end
we said you know it's actually better to
uh partner with a third-party software
company to specialize in that integrate
the systems rather than do it ourselves
that's something that we we built at v1
and made one customer really happy
two years later still only one customer
was really happy with that feature so we
ended up winding it down so the second
area was where
we
weren't working through adjacencies if
we tried to build products or features
that were for entirely different
customers as opposed to asking our
customers what more can we do for you
and then using that to open up the door
to new types of uh
new types of of segments and wrinkles
all right
so
next question um
we have an article on sasker on five
interesting things other founders could
take away from samsara the first is that
multiple products and applications are
key for scaling
samsara has two distinct vehicle iot
apps that each do 200 million in arr so
without doubling your product footprint
samsara would have been less than half
the size today a cpo
how do you decide where to double down
in multiple products follow up uh
and how do you
do then get for multiple customers
to expand with so you know it's a good
question i think you know first
each product category or each product
that we're in is in a really big market
so it's a bit hard to predict the the
future of or predict the alternate uh
reality of what would the revenue scale
have been if we had a different set of
products or fewer but you know clearly
it's been very helpful for us
i think you know as a cpo the thing that
i need to be really disciplined about
is
to work on new products when it feels a
unnatural or premature
we started uh working on our video
safety product which was our our second
product but actually uh it is now you
know over 200 200 million dollars in
scale
we started working on that when our
first product was growing incredibly
quickly and there were so many things it
didn't do it was going through hyper
growth we had bugs we had feature
requests we were trying to go up market
into the enterprise and had to build out
all the enterprise capabilities we were
trying to
sell it internationally and build new
features to make it serve international
markets it would have been really easy
to say we have our hands full and we
have plenty of growth ahead of us let's
just focus
we took a small team and said
we see an opportunity with video safety
go work on safety and that you think is
is organizationally very difficult the
organization will naturally work on on
the area that is probably going to help
more in the short term
but that discipline really you know
helped us you know build new products
over time and ultimately be able to
reinvest more back into the company
because the revenue ended up growing
faster so i think that's the area that
requires the most discipline and focus
is when you see the opportunity being
willing to carve out capacity to go
after it
all right so uh next question
you mentioned hardware as a key
differentiating factor for samsara's
growth
um for our audience members who are
considering a hardware component what do
they need to do to make sure they can
maintain
current software customers and expand
into hardware
so
you know for for both um meraki and and
samsara
these were businesses where
the hardware and the software were you
know very tightly coupled
they were really complementary like at
uh meraki we could not have built the
management experience for the network
that we wanted to if we didn't control
the hardware at samsara we couldn't
build the uh the
the software applications if we couldn't
reliably get data into them which
required again us building some hardware
so it wasn't so much about us expanding
into hardware it was saying we're trying
to solve a problem it's primarily a
software problem but we need a little
bit of hardware in order to be able to
solve it so that's the way we thought
about it and in fact the way we sell our
products today we don't have a separate
sku
there's a question about whether we have
a separate sales team for hardware same
sales scene in fact it's a single
single license subscription you buy a
license for say our telematics product
or a safety product and if you need
hardware to get data in the system we'll
provide that hardware along with a
subscription so it's really tightly
integrated that's what's worked for for
our industry obviously other other
businesses have actually gone from pure
software into hardware obviously a lot
in big tech in other areas and probably
a bit of a different playbook there
all right so i'm gonna get through as
many of these as as i can
um
[Music]
next question is um
about half of some sarah's sales team or
samsara's team is in sales how do you
incorporate feedback from sales into
product development
so
uh we're a direct sales company meraki
was a channel sales company samsara is
is a direct sales we have
inside sales for for mid-market field
sales or enterprise and so we need uh
sales capacity in order to scale the
business and about half the company is
in sales and marketing
you know when the company was was very
small
it was really really helpful you know to
have
uh product management uh effectively you
know sitting next to sales and and our
adr team hearing what they're saying on
the phone hearing what questions they
were getting asked just being able to
drop in on a call at any any moment that
really rapid organic uh feedback was i
think instrumental in the first first
couple of years but it quickly got to
the point where that wouldn't scale so
we have uh a couple of different
mechanisms
we talked about uh we talked about the
way we go direct to the customer through
our feedback buttons through our
customer summits
we also work a lot with our sales team
and the
uh sales engineering team actually ends
up being a really valuable tool in being
able to aggregate the uh the feedback
from sales especially around feature or
product requests be able to find the
patterns and uh bring them to our
product team and and we found that
interaction model uh scales really
really well and then they're able to
identify hey when do we need to bring
the product team into a specific deal to
engage with a specific customer or a
specific rep
and that's allowed us to to get signal
uh be able to distill it and also go for
sample and deep dive when we need to
all right so
great question how do you work with or
expedite the procurement process for sas
when selling into industrial or old
school industries so
big uh difference i think between how uh
i.t departments bought which is what we
were selling in meraki and how
operations bias were selling it at
samsara i think first and foremost uh
operations departments are
really busy operating you know in it a
lot of their project work is buying and
deploying new technology whereas in
operations it's you know running a
warehouse or a factory or a truck yard
and so getting time is is harder and uh
we have really focused on
having a really strong inbound demand
gen motion so that we're able to uh get
in front of customers when
uh technology and projects are top of
mind for them
and
really focused on making the sales
process really really efficient for the
customer because they're busy
now when it comes to to procurement you
know there has been a bit more education
sometimes in how to think about sas how
to think about uh subscription pricing
um it's changing quickly and especially
in our enterprise customers it's
becoming more and more
common
but it's an area where you know it's
actually been an advantage for us if
we're able to help the customers
navigate their own procurement process
and be great partners with them and the
product works well they're more likely
to want to buy their next product from
from samsarax we know how to work with
them we know how to work with the team
so it did require some uh some time and
investment but something that certainly
paid off
all right so the next question is which
international markets are you active in
to get to 500 million
um we
operate right in north america and
western europe we got our start here in
uh in the us uh expanded into uh to
canada and mexico and uh opened an
office in london a couple of years ago
and have expanded into uh into western
europe um we're still early days in
international um a lot of our revenue is
still coming from from the us and north
america
we see this as a as a global problem
ultimately and and uh
operations are everywhere and they need
the same types of data and technology uh
but certainly want to make sure that
we're not spread too thin so we've been
phased about our international expansion
but very excited about what we can do
overseas long term as well
all right so um next question kind of
following up on on sales what were the
most effective sales techniques and
selling it to industrial clients what
was the average sales cycle
where did you find me the typical
roadblocks so i talked about some of the
areas around around procurement
just sometimes requiring a bit more time
and education when it came to sas
in terms of sales cycle interestingly
enough it ends up looking very similar
to
many other sas products where
uh a mid-market inside sales deal might
be a 90-day 90-day sales cycle uh small
business might be a few weeks and then
an enterprise sale might be
you know nine nine twelve months so ends
up looking like a lot of other uh uh a
lot of other you know businesses uh the
actual
tactics of you know how we're doing
demos how we're running trials uh how
we're handling leads some of those can
be a little bit different just based on
uh you know the fact that you know
customers are not at their desk a lot of
the day you have to rely a lot more on
on texting and and cell phones you know
being able to uh do trials where you can
give them a product they can do an eval
without having to get on the phone with
you to have another coordination point
and some of those types of tactics were
different but let's say the sales cycle
was relatively similar to a lot of other
businesses
all right grace next question great
question
about
multi-product how do you remain focused
on the previous product while developing
a new one
did funding help you scale resources so
small teams could remain focused what
about sales and marketing
yeah so
great great questions there i think
we really focused on making sure that
teams were single threaded so if you
were working on one product you could be
laser focused on on it and then you know
we were able to staff teams based on
kind of on their needs
we always want more capacity you can
always do more everywhere but you know
this idea of splitting teams when you
see something working and having small
teams that were focused it's been really
really effective
um on the sales and and marketing side
you know certainly you know going from
uh product three to product four for
example
is is naturally harder right sales teams
will want to sell the thing that is easy
that is is easy for them that is
familiar that's proven
and you know especially early on it's
harder to get sales mind share in a
brand new product or maybe the revenue
impact or the ease of sale hasn't been
been fleshed out
so
um you know a couple of things that have
really helped there you know one is
our goal is always for all of our
sellers to be able to sell as many
different products as possible but
sometimes we want to start with a small
focused team even if it's a small adr
team generate leads that are really
laser focused on a product to get the
get the physics of the new product down
to iron out the kinks to build the
playbooks then to build champions right
find the people in the sales team who
are the presidents club winners who are
the most aggressive or most
confident who other sales team members
will look up to get them excited get
them winning and then it snowballs from
there
uh now we're a couple of minutes over
time i'm going to stay on for just a few
more minutes and answer a handful of
more questions we'll try to get through
as many as as we can here
[Music]
great question from vanita about how do
you choose and prioritize the
customization requests from customers
and when you say yes or no
we really try to not do any any features
or customizations that are going to be
specific to one organization um we
really try to find the patterns and
when there's something that is one-off
we always say hey is there a way that we
can build an api endpoint or build some
flexibility into the platform that would
allow their it department or integrator
to do that for them so that's what we
try and uh you know that really helps
keep uh keep keep focused i think this
is something that salesforce actually
did did well in the kind of early days
of sas and blaze the trail for that
pattern something that we we've tried to
emulate
all right so
uh try to maybe take one final question
here
all right
so i'll take this one as the last one
it's good one to end on what is your
plan with data you mentioned it as a big
part of the strategy
giving for going forward are you going
to give customers a customized data feed
or environment where they can analyze
and add data from other systems so
awesome question as i mentioned i think
we're we're just scratching the surface
of what we can do with data and i think
that uh i'd love to be back in front of
you in five years and tell you all the
ideas that we had that worked what
didn't but also what new we learned
along the way um i think first and
foremost you know we now have a scale of
data that we can use uh ml and data
science in ways that would have been
impossible before to just create a lot
of value through features right so if we
look at uh things from you know
recommendations to training our ai
models to have them be more accurate to
being able to find more types of uh
behaviors that might lead to accidents
or fuel waste being able to surface
those in the product are going to have a
massive massive impact and that's
something that just would have been
unfeasible a couple years from now
looking longer term we're actually
collecting more and more types of data
and so that's going to allow us to build
products and features for parts of our
customers operations where maybe we're
not using data today we think about
our newest product family our connected
sites product we're getting data
not just from uh you know trucks and
equipment out in the field from
facilities we're going to have a whole
new set of things we can do to help with
operations as we get more and more data
about what happens inside a facility
have the data from sensors from cancer
cameras being able to analyze and find
insights i think a third area that i'm
really excited about is being able to
compare
data across customers so we anonymize
all the data then we can aggregate it
slice it and dice it and actually give
customers tools to say you know how are
their operations stacking up against uh
operators like them and if we project
out a handful of years we should be able
to do things like understand hey what
equipment is potentially likely to fail
you know what are the opportunities
for uh reducing your carbon footprint
etc you know based on getting data and
analyzing it across tens of thousands of
customers so uh a lot a lot more to come
there and looking forward to checking
back with you in a few years and giving
you an update
[Music]
you